README.md, before:

# PHPCS Diff

The purpose of this project is to provide a mean of running [PHP CodeSniffer](https://github.com/squizlabs/PHP_CodeSniffer) (aka PHPCS) checks on top of file(s) stored in a version control system and reporting issues introduced only in specific revision(s).

Reporting only new issues for specific revision migth be important in case the PHPCS is being introduced later in the development cycle and there are no resources for cleaning up all existing issues.

# Installation

## Pre-requisities

This project is dependant on a [WordPress](wordpress.org) installation and is meant to be installed as a [WP CLI](wp-cli.org) command.

You also will need to have the [PHP CodeSniffer installed on your server](https://github.com/squizlabs/PHP_CodeSniffer#installation).

## Installation steps for this project

Checkout this project to your theme or a plugin and include the `wp-cli-command.php` file for introducing a new command to your WP CLI.

You might want to conditionally include the file only in case the WordPress is loaded as part of WP CLI:

```
if ( defined( 'WP_CLI' ) && WP_CLI ) {
	require_once( './wp-cli-command.php' );
}
```

# Configuration

This project requires some manual updates to the code in order to make it working.

## PHPCS

If default values for running PHPCS command does not match your environment (see https://github.com/Automattic/phpcs-diff/blob/master/class-phpcs-diff.php#L5 ), you either need to hardcode them to the `PHPCS_Diff` class, or pass those in the `(array) $options` param to class' constructor from the WP CLI command - https://github.com/Automattic/phpcs-diff/blob/master/wp-cli-command.php#L64

```
new PHPCS_Diff( new PHPCS_Diff_SVN( $repo ), array( 'phpcs_command' => 'my_phpcs_command', 'standards_location' => 'my/standards/location' ) );
```

## SVN

### Credentials

You either need to hardcode SVN credentials to `PHPCS_Diff_SVN` class ( related code: https://github.com/Automattic/phpcs-diff/blob/master/class-phpcs-diff-svn.php#L5 ) or pass those via the `(array) $options` param to class' constructor from the WP CLI command - https://github.com/Automattic/phpcs-diff/blob/master/wp-cli-command.php#L64

```
new PHPCS_Diff_SVN( $repo, array( 'svn_username' => 'my_username', 'svn_password' => 'my_password' ) );
```

### Repository

You'll have to either register your repository in the `PHPCS_Diff_SVN`'s constructor ( [example](https://github.com/Automattic/phpcs-diff/blob/master/class-phpcs-diff-svn.php#L25,L27) ) or pass your own repository to the constructor via `(array) $options` param from the WP CLI command - https://github.com/Automattic/phpcs-diff/blob/master/wp-cli-command.php#L64

```
new PHPCS_Diff_SVN( $repo, array( 'repo_url' => 'https://plugins.svn.wordpress.org/hello-dolly' ) );
```

# Running the WP CLI command

Example command run:

```
wp phpcs-diff --repo="hello-dolly" --start_revision=99998 --end_revision=100000
```

For more params of the command, please, see the code directly: https://github.com/Automattic/phpcs-diff/blob/master/wp-cli-command.php#L12

# TODO:

- [ ] Make configuration of the environment (phpcs command, standard's location, more repositories registration and svn credentials) easier than manual modification of the code
- [ ] Create GitHub version control backend
- [ ] Make the WP CLI command version control backend agnostic
- [ ] Turn this into a proper WordPress plugin for easy installation

Commit message:

Updating README.md in order to reflect the changes in installation menthod (this is a WordPress plugin now) and configuration (using the constants).

README.md, after:

# PHPCS Diff

The purpose of this project is to provide a mean of running [PHP CodeSniffer](https://github.com/squizlabs/PHP_CodeSniffer) (aka PHPCS) checks on top of file(s) stored in a version control system and reporting issues introduced only in specific revision(s).

Reporting only new issues for specific revision migth be important in case the PHPCS is being introduced later in the development cycle and there are no resources for cleaning up all existing issues.

# Installation

## Pre-requisities

Along a working [WordPress](wordpress.org) installation you'll need a [WP CLI](wp-cli.org) installed since you can interact with the plugin via WP CLI only for now.

You also will need to have the [PHP CodeSniffer installed on your server](https://github.com/squizlabs/PHP_CodeSniffer#installation).

## Installation steps for this project

Checkout this repository to your plugins directory and activate the plugin via standard WordPress administration.

# Configuration

In order to be able to properly use this plugin you'll have to add some constants to your wp-config.php file.

## PHPCS

If default values for running PHPCS command does not match your environment (see https://github.com/Automattic/phpcs-diff/blob/master/class-phpcs-diff.php#L5 ), you need to override those via constants located in wp-config.php of your WordPress installation:

```
define( 'PHPCS_DIFF_COMMAND', 'phpcs' );
define( 'PHPCS_DIFF_STANDARDS', 'path/to/phpcs/standards' );
```

Alternatively, if you are using the PHPCS_Diff class outside of this plugin, you can pass those in the `(array) $options` param to class' constructor from the WP CLI command - https://github.com/Automattic/phpcs-diff/blob/master/wp-cli-command.php#L64

```
new PHPCS_Diff( new PHPCS_Diff_SVN( $repo ), array( 'phpcs_command' => 'my_phpcs_command', 'standards_location' => 'my/standards/location' ) );
```

## SVN

### Credentials

You need to provide the plugin SVN credentials. This can be done using following constants put into wp-config.php file of your WordPress installation:

```
define( 'PHPCS_DIFF_SVN_USERNAME', 'my_svn_username' );
define( 'PHPCS_DIFF_SVN_PASSWORD', 'my_svn_password' );
```

Alternatively, if you are using the `PHPCS_Diff` and `PHPCS_Diff_SVN` classes outside of this plugin, you can pass those via the `(array) $options` param to class' constructor from the WP CLI command - https://github.com/Automattic/phpcs-diff/blob/master/wp-cli-command.php#L64

```
new PHPCS_Diff_SVN( $repo, array( 'svn_username' => 'my_username', 'svn_password' => 'my_password' ) );
```

### Repository

You'll have to either register your repository in the `PHPCS_Diff_SVN`'s constructor ( [example](https://github.com/Automattic/phpcs-diff/blob/master/class-phpcs-diff-svn.php#L25,L27) ) or pass your own repository to the constructor via `(array) $options` param from the WP CLI command - https://github.com/Automattic/phpcs-diff/blob/master/wp-cli-command.php#L64

```
new PHPCS_Diff_SVN( $repo, array( 'repo_url' => 'https://plugins.svn.wordpress.org/hello-dolly' ) );
```

# Running the WP CLI command

Example command run:

```
wp phpcs-diff --repo="hello-dolly" --start_revision=99998 --end_revision=100000
```

For more params of the command, please, see the code directly: https://github.com/Automattic/phpcs-diff/blob/master/wp-cli-command.php#L12

# TODO:

- [ ] Create an easy way to register custom repositories
- [ ] Create GitHub version control backend
- [ ] Make the WP CLI command version control backend agnostic
